Bekah Hawrot Weigel  0:03  
Hey, I'm Bekah.

Dan Ott  0:04  
And I'm Dan.

Bekah Hawrot Weigel  0:05  
And this is the Virtual Coffee Podcast, where we interview members of the community to learn more about their stories, who they are, how they found Virtual Coffee, and how that influences their lives as developers.

Dan Ott  0:17  
We wanted to bring everything that's special about Virtual Coffee, the intimacy and the friendships we've built, and share that with everyone through the podcast.

Bekah Hawrot Weigel  0:25  
2020 has been a tough year, but Virtual Coffee is the bright spot that's become this community.

Dan Ott  0:31  
We're always growing and learning together as a group. And there's something really special about being able to do that knowing you have the full support of the community around you. And that's what this podcast is about.

Bekah Hawrot Weigel  0:42  
We're kicking off the season by hearing from Nick Taylor about live streaming and open source. 

Nick Taylor  0:47  
This this is kind of where my journey of structured YOLO begins.

Bekah Hawrot Weigel  0:52  
Marie Antons about coming into tech from a non traditional background, 

Marie Antons  0:56  
Previous experience really helps you in software development. Because think of a recipe is kind of like building a website, like, Oh, I know, I need this piece. But what if I don't know how to do this piece? I'll go look it up, go watch a YouTube video. And then eventually, you get to a place where you're like, comfortable. Oh, I can make cookies. Now without looking at the recipe I can make this I can do. I can create a modal, I can do the CSS Grid without really having to go to the documentation every single time. 

Bekah Hawrot Weigel  1:24  
And Tori Crawford about the problems of interviewing in the industry. 

Tori Crawford  1:28  
Interviewing was crazy for me. I think I went through 53 interviews. Yeah, it was, like, quite a struggle at times.

Dan Ott  1:43  
You also get a special bonus episode that we recorded live after Hacktoberfest.

Kirk Shillingford  1:47  
Hacktoberfest happened because we were like, Hey, we want to do something good. You know, and then people were like, I don't want to do this or strangers, but I wouldn't mind doing it with with everybody here. And I think that's like very important. Like I wouldn't have done this with people who I didn't consider like friends, and good people.

Bekah Hawrot Weigel  2:07  
Best of all, you'll get to hear so much of the heart that goes into the community. And we're very excited to share that with you. 

Dan Ott  2:13  
If you'd like to learn more about Virtual Coffee, please check out our website at virtualcoffee.io or say hi to us on Twitter at VirtualCoffeeIO and we will talk to you soon!

